---
date: 2010-04-15
title: "Do."
---

I’ve literally spent years of my life trying to figure out what to do. There
are so many options. We live in a time when anyone can be anything. There are
so many tools. So much power. So much opportunity. Everyone’s busy.
Information is unlimited. Speed of communication is unlimited. There are no
boundaries anymore.

With so much freedom and so many options and so many tools, you would think
the world would be saturated by effective people who reach their full creative
and productive potential, wouldn’t you? I have to say, as I look around and as
I look at my own life, I think that while information and tools and
opportunity and power are more available than ever, as a culture we are
accomplishing things at a slower rate than ever before. Don’t get me wrong -
the TOOLS are becoming more amazing and efficient. The INFORMATION is becoming
increasingly available. I can find out anything I need to know in minutes on
my iPhone and then communicate it to 1000 people on Facebook immediately. But
what have I done with that power?

I’ve thought a lot about it. As I said earlier, I’ve spend years trying to
figure out how I’ll leave my mark in the world. I’ve spent countless hours
carefully choosing the software and the tools to make music that changes
humanity. But choosing tools and opening information channels doesn’t DO
anything.

The problem hasn’t changed in 6000 years. The problem has never been the
tools. It’s never been the availability of information or the speed of
communication. It’s been our fear. A fear that if we try something great and
it doesn’t work then what else is there for me? If this doesn’t work, I’m
done. BUT, if I spend my whole life preparing to do, then I can never become a
failure. “I’m just trying to be well prepared.” But that’s it, isn’t it. All
we’ll ever be is well prepared - prepared to do what we decide never to do.

Infinite power, infinite tools, infinite resources, infinite communication.
Finite world. Finite problems. Yet still a large part of the world struggles
to find clean water. Girls are sold to be sex providers the rest of their
lives. Children carry guns into wars they don’t understand. People starve.
They lose children. They die alone. They commit suicide. The value of the
human race slowly deteriorates as we prepare our master plan to save it.

What if all of the tools (excuses) went away? What if all of our fear went
away? What if we started doing today. How long would it really take to restore
value to humanity?

-np

