---
date: 2011-12-28
title: "Blog Post: Your \"Thing\" (follow-up post)"
---
<p>This is a follow up to the <a href="http://nathanpeterson.tumblr.com/post/14571673943/living-in-default" target="_blank">"living in default" thought from last week</a>. I think most of us would say we're not satisfied living in default. So why does it happen, and what can we do to change it?</p>
<p>I can be sitting across from someone who has the potential to be a <em>huge</em> light in this dark world. To challenge the status quo and actually change it because of their influence. To do something no one has ever had the guts to try before, and succeed. But something's stopping them. They're living in default instead.</p>
<p>First off, Stephen Pressfield's book "The War of Art" covers this topic way better than I ever will. So I defer to him for the real answer. <a href="http://www.amazon.com/War-Art-Through-Creative-Battles/dp/0446691437/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1324494046&amp;sr=8-1">Here's a link</a>.</p>
<p>But I will mention that <strong>a common thread I see in just about every one of these people is their inability to answer the question "what's your 'thing'?"</strong>. Like, 10yrs from now, what is it that you should be spending most of your time doing? If we're honest, I don't think most of us can answer that question. What if we could? Can you see how every incoming request would then naturally <em>have</em> to be filtered through that end goal? Every decision you make could then be run through a filter - "does this serve my higher calling?". Wouldn't that be an unbelievably powerful and helpful tool to have with you every single day?</p>
<p>I personally believe that God created each of us and I believe He had our "thing" in mind when He made us. I'm not saying everyone should be president or invent the flying car. It doesn't even have to be your career. Maybe it's just a hobby, but it's the <em>thing - </em>and when you do it or pursue it, you feel at home - like you were made for this.</p>
<p>The problem isn't that we don't have a "thing". The problem is that <strong>we don't know what it is</strong>. And every one of us has a great excuse as to why.</p>
<p>I believe that in every case it's our own fault. Because the reality is, figuring out our "thing" is work. It actually takes <em>work and time</em>. It takes journalling, asking advise from others and, God forbid, <strong>silence</strong>. But I believe to each person who spends the months or years of effort it takes to answer this simple question, "what is your 'thing'", the answer eventually comes.</p>
<p>If you don't already have time in your weekly schedule set aside to answer this question, I think it's something you should seriously consider. Treat it as a discipline. It's really your responsibility to do this. No one else is going to do it for you (in fact, they may be annoyed when you start doing it for yourself - especially if it impacts their world in any way).</p>
<p>Pulling yourself out of the gravitational pull of default living is <em>work</em>. But it's well worth it when you consider the alternative.</p>