---
date: 2011-04-15
title: "Absolutes in Worship"
---
<div class='posterous_autopost'>This morning I heard a worship song that sounded pretty cool. I started thinking of using it at our church or with Hello Industry at conferences. But after a few lines, my excitement faded. This happens pretty regularly and I&#39;ve never been able to put my finger on the reason... until today.<p /><div>I&#39;ve always felt a disconnect between the worship music I write or connection with and the music I hear on the radio or in churches. A lot of it is musical. I don&#39;t get excited about formulaic music. When my 3yr old can point out that it&#39;s a Christian radio station 5 seconds into my switching to the channel, it&#39;s probably safe to say that Christian music has become predictable. It&#39;s a sound that hasn&#39;t changed in *many* years and it sounds eerily similar to mainstream music about 10yrs ago. Far behind the trends. Low on uniqueness or creative expression. It&#39;s a formula.</div> <p /><div>But the music isn&#39;t the problem. One good thing about formulaic music is that it&#39;s easy to catch onto since you can almost predict the next thing that will happen. Formulaic music in worship contexts can be helpful... I suppose.</div> <p /><div>I think my real disconnect is happening at the lyrical level.</div><p /><div>Today I think I was able to put my finger on why. <b>I think it&#39;s the absolute language</b> used in so many worship songs. &quot;I will follow you wherever you go.&quot; &quot;I give you my all.&quot; &quot;I surrender everything to you.&quot; &quot;I will love you forever.&quot; ...... But not really. None of those things have actually been true when I&#39;ve said them to God. Nice things to say, but untrue. I understand that we can say something we&#39;d *like* to be true and mean it as a commitment to work towards. But even in those cases, I&#39;m know in the back of my head it should be more like &quot;I will <i>fail</i> you forever&quot;.</div> <p /><div>I&#39;m tired of saying nice things to God. I&#39;m tired, in some cases, of lying to God.</div><p /><div>If I&#39;m going to sing a song to God, I&#39;d like to sing a song that points out how things really are... and then deal with the reality - right then. Sure, I know &quot;when we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be&quot;, but *today* I feel like hell because I just screamed at my kids and wife for no good reason. I feel ugly. I&#39;m living a half life. I&#39;m scared of not being able to provide for my family or of wasting my life and being forgotten. If I&#39;m talking with the God of the Universe, I&#39;d like to talk about that.</div> <p /><div>This longing in my soul seriously limits the bank of worship songs I can choose from as a worshipper. But maybe that&#39;s a good thing - limitation breeds creativity and progress, and in this case limitation should breed new songs. I guess that&#39;s how most things worth anything begin.</div></div>