---
date: 2013-03-21
title: "Mold"
---

For those who were wondering, here's an update on our home mold situation...

I've been sick for like 10yrs. My family's also been sick more often than
what's normal. We had just gotten used to it. A year ago I had my tonsils
taken out hoping that would give me better voice health for touring. The
tonsils were always swollen and sore. The Dr who took them out said they were
covered with scar tissue from all the infection. So it was good to take them
out. But for the past year I've now been experiencing chronic dry throat,
sinus congestion, nasal drip, and loss of voice. Not really what I had in
mind. I was tested for allergies and it turns out I'm allergic to mold. That's
what got us wondering if we had mold in our home.

We hired a mold inspection company who uses dogs trained to find mold.
Probably the coolest thing I've ever seen. Sure enough, the entire perimeter
of our basement is covered with mold. It looks like efflorescence, so I never
suspected it was mold. They tested the air and basically our basement is the
equivalent of 2x the worse allergy season. Our upstairs was bad too, but not
nearly as bad. Because I work in the basement (studio and office are down
there), I've been living in a constant state of allergic reaction for like
10yrs. Not good for my health, especially my voice.

We hired a company to remediate the mold issue this weekend. They'll be in our
house for the next 3-5 days, scraping, vacuuming, spraying, dusting, and
painting. Then they'll test again and make sure the air is clean.

While I wish I could have known and fixed this 10yrs ago, I feel like the
timing in some ways is good. For the next stage of our lives, we need to be
healthy and I need my voice to be strong and dependable. This was a good
reminder for me: Our family and home and health are the foundation on which we
build our lives. Neglect those, and eventually everything will come crashing
down.

Between remediating the mold problem, some visits with an ENT and Allergist,
and starting training with a voice coach, I expect my voice to be better than
it's ever been by the end of this year. It'll be a lot of work for the next
few months, but __I'm excited to get writing and singing again__!

Thanks for your love and support!

-nathan

