---
date: 2014-02-21
title: "Blog Post: A New Chapter"
---
<p>The last few years have been a crazy time of change for our family. While much of the time we&#8217;ve felt out of control, we&#8217;ve had an overarching sense of peace - like everything was &#8220;on track&#8221;, that this was all part of the plan, and that our job in this was to <em>let go</em>, let the current take us, and learn to rest in that current. For me personally, it&#8217;s been about the hardest thing I&#8217;ve ever had to do - to force myself to stay still - to favor listening over making things happen. If you know me, you understand. But while it&#8217;s been hard, these years have been the best years of my life. If I&#8217;ve learned nothing else, I&#8217;ve at least learned to give up the ridiculous notion than there&#8217;s any direct correlation between this world&#8217;s definition of &#8220;success&#8221; and true progress (I&#8217;ll go into it in another post).</p>

<p><strong>So the news.</strong> We believe the next step for our family and for Hello Industry requires us to move from our home in Peoria and situate ourselves in an apartment in Chicago. Heather and I are from Chicago, but neither of us thought we&#8217;d live there again. Actually, somewhere along the line Peoria became &#8220;home&#8221; to us. Our family and friends are here. Rather than moving &#8220;back to Chicago&#8221; this feels more like moving <em>away</em> from Peoria. So we&#8217;ve got mixed emotions. We&#8217;re excited because we know this is the next step. Our family is entering a new chapter and Hello Industry is going to benefit from operating out of a city like Chicago. But we&#8217;ll miss our friends. </p>

<p>We&#8217;re excited and we&#8217;re sad. But beneath our emotions, we hear a voice whispering, &#8220;this is the way&#8221;. We have to follow!</p>

<p><strong>Peoria friends and Richwoods family-</strong> Thank you for 10 years of true friendship and grace. In this community we became parents. We grew our family. I learned to be a pastor and a leader. We built Hello Industry. We made 4 albums. We made so many mistakes. On the shoulders of this community we began a journey toward our true selves - a journey which now takes us somewhere new. And while we&#8217;re leaving Peoria, we&#8217;ll need the support of this community more than ever. We&#8217;re standing in front of a mountain, and there&#8217;s no way we can do this alone.</p>

<p>The end of one thing is always the beginning of another. God, help us to rest in the current.</p>