---
date: 2015-03-07
title: "Blog Post"
---
On September 2nd 2012 I saw a
tall black man w a priest collar at Aldi. When he passed me my spirit kind of
jumped - like “notice this guy”. A few seconds later he came back and asked if
I was a Christian. I said yes. He said “I thought so. I felt like I was
supposed to come back and tell you, God's about to do some great things with
you.” I said “really?”. He said “Yes. Be very attentive. He's about to do
great things with you.” I thanked him and he walked away. This was one of my
lowest days. I was transitioning to full time musician status and feeling zero
traction and like a failure. I knew God sent him to let me know I just needed
to hang on, because I was going to impact millions of people eventually with
my music. I've thought about that interaction almost daily for over 2 years.
Many times it's all that's kept me going. Over the past several months,
everything in our life has come to a halt. Our current season is winter. All
is still. Dead or asleep. Silent. Frozen. Bare. It's a season I never want,
but am always grateful for it in retrospect. In winter, things that don't run
deep are allowed to die. In winter, there's clarity where there used to be
noise and priorities are a simple thing. Without winter we'd suffocate under
the thousands of layers of identity and unnecessary commitment and
responsibility we heap upon ourselves during the rest of the year. We need
winter to be clear on who we are and who we're not. Who we are in summer, when
we're performing at full capacity, on stage with a loud PA and lights, that's
not necessarily us. Who we are in winter, when everything is quiet and there's
nothing to hide behind and our weakness is painfully obvious to everyone,
that's who we are. Unfortunately, most people spend their lives avoiding
winter at all costs. The highest cost is that they never get to know who they
really are. I will make music again (I have to keep chanting this to myself
every time I look out the window at the badly neglected band van and trailer),
but that's not what the Aldi preacher was talking about when he said "great
things". "Great things" isn't wowing people from the stage or a million iTunes
downloads or meaningful letters about how my music has changed someone's life
forever. Those are only secondary results. "Great things" is finding rest in
disaster, your kids seeing and feeling your strength and peace and trust in a
situation where anyone else would have crumbled, and their core being
strengthened forever, because the battle you're fighting is also for them and
for many future generations. "Great things" is when everything that should
have created fear in you doesn't - when it all falls apart and you're still
ok, and you realize for the first time that fear is the enemy, not
circumstance, and now you're free. "Great things" is when we fight our inner
battles instead of retreating to our addictions, and in fighting our battles
the community surrounding us is strengthened in their fight as well. "Great
things" is when fear has to give up, because the worst happened and *we are
still here* - still moving toward each other and toward God and still allowing
ourselves to fully trust, fully feel, fully hurt, and fully live.

