---
date: 2016-08-01
title: "Blog Post"
---
Today I’m sharing some thoughts
I wrote after going to church yesterday. No agenda - just processing out loud.
I’m curious to know if others have felt a similar way... I was at church. I
had to leave. I couldn’t listen for another minute to someone *telling* about
how great God is and about how everything we see and feel and know right now
is inconsequential. I’m tired of the theoretical, etherial *telling* about
life. I need something real, now. I need to feel the ground under my feet. I
need to breathe air. I need to *experience* God, not know *about* God. I don’t
believe there is such a huge divide between this life and the next; that
nothing here and now carries over. Something will carry over. I don’t believe
Olivia will be perfect in heaven - at least not “perfect” the way we mean it.
In heaven Olivia’s ears may still be lower than normal. Both her eyes may
still not track together. Her hair may be the same untamable super-villain
hair it was when she was here. At least, I hope so. I love those things about
her. Is heaven really a place where everyone is “perfect”, or could it be that
our definition of “perfect” changes in heaven? Could it be that our mindset
shifts, and not the circumstances? I don’t believe anyone knows what God or
heaven is like. I wish we’d stop pretending that we do. And I wish we’d stop
throwing away the beauty that is right in front of us today, devaluing what is
in order to make heaven sound that much better. I do believe that God and
heaven and all its beauty are closer to this moment than they will ever be
again. Living within the constraints of time, we picture heaven as the
farthest off thing. It’s “after” - after we die - after Jesus comes back -
after, after, after. But pushing heaven off into eternity could be a great way
for us to avoid its actual existence - that may be useful if the uncertainty
we feel about heaven makes us uncomfortable. It’s also a great way to avoid a
potential responsibility we may have today, to *help* heaven somehow. Maybe
we’re more comfortable keeping heaven at a distance. Maybe we’re more
comfortable showing up to church and being told *about* God and *about*
heaven. Like being told what skydiving is like. It’s safer. It’s faster too.
And infinitely more dull. Life is experienced by *living*.

