---
date: 2016-08-29
title: "Blog Post"
---
Here&#x27;s an update I&#x27;d rather not post. I suppose that&#x27;s bound to happen.

I&#x27;m sure there&#x27;s a book somewhere that says month 5 is worse than month 1, and I&#x27;m sure reading it wouldn&#x27;t make any difference.

This week I&#x27;ve turned into a hateful angry person. I&#x27;ve blown up at home multiple times. Everything Heather says hits me wrong. I&#x27;m embarrassed that my kids have seen me this way. Not to mention Heather and probably some neighbors.

I feel myself becoming someone I dislike and don&#x27;t respect. And it feels like there&#x27;s nothing I can do about it. Just like I can&#x27;t do anything about the weather. Or Olivia. It&#x27;s all just sort of taking its course. I have such an extremely uncomfortable sense of no-control.

For the past couple of years I&#x27;ve been waiving the flag of &quot;Fear is the enemy&quot; and I&#x27;ve been fighting Fear on a daily basis. I think I&#x27;ve done pretty well at it. But I feel like the battle has shifted for me, and it shifted without me noticing. Control is my new enemy, or the desire for control.

I just want to feel a sense of having a handle on something. Anything. I want to feel like something is controlled. Preferable under my control.

I&#x27;ve been drawn to researching music gear even more than usual lately, and I think this explains why. It&#x27;s something for me to control. And with better tools, I have the impression of controlling my work that much better.

I&#x27;ve felt the need for our house to be clean, even more than usual. I think that&#x27;s the same thing. It&#x27;s something controllable which makes me feel incrementally better.

I&#x27;ve been more on top of practice and exercise than ever. Something I can control.

But despite the amount of care I put into these things, they are relatively unimportant things to me. Much less important to me than things like Olivia&#x27;s life, our other kids&#x27; health, my health, my career, Heather&#x27;s words... the things most important to me... the things I have absolutely no control over.

So I grab onto the things I can control. But it&#x27;s not working. Deep down I know I didn&#x27;t have what it took. I couldn&#x27;t save Olivia. I can&#x27;t protect my kids from everything. I can&#x27;t make Heather respect me. The reality is that I&#x27;m out of control.

I hate the feeling. But I think I&#x27;m making the battle about the wrong thing. The exact wrong thing. I can&#x27;t be concerned with regaining a sense of control. I must be concerned with accepting the reality of my situation - and the situation is, and has always been, I am not in control.

I am not in control.

I think rest is on the other side of accepting the truth of that fact- that while we can control some things, the most important things to us are all outside of our control. Maybe that&#x27;s why they&#x27;re so valuable to us - we know they&#x27;re only ours because they are being given - we know we never could have taken them for ourselves.

Is the battle shifting, or am I just experiencing a new facet of the same fight? Fear is becoming less of the issue. It&#x27;s there. It&#x27;s not helping anything but I can&#x27;t get rid of it either. I can&#x27;t not be afraid. I can pretend, but that&#x27;s about it. But what if I can be ok with that? What if I can allow Fear to be there, give it that freedom, without my normal response.

My normal response to Fear is control. What if instead I chose to respond by the opposite; by letting go? Wouldn&#x27;t that take away all of Fear's power?