---
date: 2016-10-26
title: "Blog Post"
---
Since Olivia died, I’ve felt
hurried to “move on”. Moving on brings a picture to my mind of crying all my
tears, then standing up and getting back to it. Like a pitstop - it was
necessary, but now I’m good and ready to go. I fantasize about walking back
into the figurative room of life, all my friends seeing me. I strongly
announce, “I’m back.” “He’s back!” everyone cheers. It feels nice, but I
already know - it will never happen. I’ll never say those words. Not because
I'll never heal, but because the me who was, is gone. He’ll never be back. And
I'm not going to pretend. But a new me is emerging. Olivia changed us. She’s
forever a part of us, and we’re forever a part of her. Part of me is buried, 3
miles from my house, with my daughter, a rubber giraffe, a pumpkin rattle held
together by a piece of scotch tape, and a dress my wife knit 2 years ago. Not
just a part of me - the best part of me I had to offer. And part of Olivia is
embedded in us. Everything we see, every song we hear, everything I write,
every conversation we have, is affected by Olivia and somehow experienced
*with* her. It’s not just her memory. It’s more than that. It’s *her*. Part of
her is in us. Not just a part of her - the best part of her she had to offer.
I would never take that part of me out of her casket. And I would never remove
the part of her that’s embedded in me. Not in a million years. But it is a new
reality, and I don’t know how to be this new person. Nothing feels familiar.
Nothing is comfortable. I feel like an alien. All I can do is accept the
change and trust the process. A new me is emerging. This is beauty from ashes.
It's life. Our life. We can't "move on" from that. We wouldn't if we could. So
if we're not moving on, what’s ahead for us? Hopelessness? Absolutely not. In
front of us is uncertain. Like a dark room. But darkness doesn’t scare us the
way it used to. In front of us is uncertain. *And* in front of us is Life.
It’s always that way. Life is a dark room. We have to accept the uncertainty,
the clumsiness of it, and walk into the darkness anyway. Life is ahead.

