---
date: 2016-06-09
title: "Blog Post"
---

You’re counting days, you’re killing time, you’re all but gone. So am I.

I don’t think there’s anything more difficult than noticing what’s in front of
you - being where you are, when you are. Three years ago I wanted to be in a
different city. Last year I wanted to feel “normal” again. This year I want to
be in last year with Olivia.

But here I am, here. Today.

What’s happening in this moment?  
My son is practicing piano upstairs.  
My daughter is playing with her dolls.  
My other son is stomping around the house because he’s bored and wants to make
us all pay.  
My wife is up there trying to create some sense of order.  
Olivia is at rest 2 miles away… or a million miles away, I don’t know.  
I’m tired from another restless night, with dreams about my family being in
danger and my inability to keep them safe.  
I’m sitting in my office trying to put my feelings into words.  
The grass is wet from a storm which just ended. The sun is peaking out from
behind the clouds.

This is life, at the moment. And at the moment, everything is ok. And even if
it wasn’t, this is life.

How many of our years will we give away to Fear? How much of our own life will
we not live?

You’re counting days, you’re killing time, you’re all but gone. So am I.

Don’t be gone. Don’t let this happen over and over, to us and our kids and
their kids. If we lose the battle, they will too. Let’s break the cycle, of
dying before we’re dead. Let’s return to where we are, when we are, who we
are. Let’s leave what is not, alone. Those times and places will come, or they
won’t. If we can learn to be here now, we’ll have the discipline to be there
then.

No matter how painful or confusing or perfect, Life is only here. It is only
now.

We’re still here. We’re breathing out, we’re breathing in. We’re alive.

