---
date: 2016-06-27
title: "Blog Post"
---
Today’s personal update: I feel
blank inside. I know there’s a ton of pain in there somewhere and I’m (1)
afraid to touch it because it’s been covered up for a few days and I’m getting
used to feeling numb, and (2) feeling very guilty for not doing my “grief
work” like a good little griever. I feel on display. Like everyone’s watching
to see how I handle things. I’ve always felt like that. I feel the world on my
shoulders. I feel angry. Like, really? We had to go through all of this, Livie
had to go through all of it… so we could be made into an example? And what
now? What are we now? Olivia is gone and we’re still here. We feel used up.
Tossed aside. No longer useful or interesting. We don’t have the energy we
used to have. We don’t feel the creativity we used to. Or the patience. Or the
motivation. Another part of me wouldn’t change a single thing about any of it.
Screw our example. Screw what happens next. Those 14 months with Olivia, and
even these past few months in its wake, here with Heather and our 3 kids, are
the most treasured months of my life. I feel equal parts “what now?” and “who
cares, I can’t take another step anyway”. I know tomorrow will be different.
Probably later today will be different. And I hesitate to share this without
tying some sort of bow around it - partially because I'd like to write
something inspiring, but mostly because I don't want people to try to fix it.
There's nothing to be fixed - it is what it is. And even if it could be fixed,
we wouldn't want it. Our pain is what connects us to Olivia. Our pain is what
progresses us through the grieving process. Yesterday, our friend Mike told me
apologetically that he was standing at Olivia's grave and didn't know what to
pray for us. He wanted to help, but all he could do was stand there and feel
sad. I felt so thankful for his willingness to sit in our pain with us, rather
than looking for a way out. This is the most helpful and loving thing a friend
can do. Thank you Mike.

