---
date: 2017-01-02
title: "Blog Post"
---
Today I was looking back at my
Jan 1 journal entries. It’s striking how much my outlook on life has changed
in just a few years. Jan 1 2014 I had 2 pages of goals with daily, weekly, and
monthly routines and checkpoints to help me reach those goals. Jan 1 2015 my
goal was to fully experience Olivia’s birth, which was supposed to be our only
few minutes to know her. I had a bunch of plans, a “train schedule” I called
it, for how we’d recover and then continue growing Hello Industry starting
that February. I gave myself one month to grieve. Jan 1 2016 Olivia had been
alive almost a year. She defied all odds and had convinced us she was here to
stay. Her birthday was coming. I wrote in my journal that my only goal was to
live each moment, fully. Nothing else. How beautiful and how powerful, that
one little girl who can’t even hold her head up - who is so severely disabled
that she doesn’t even know she’s disabled - can transform the mind and heart
of a 35 year old man - a stubborn, overly driven, overly self-aware, fearful
man. Powerful, powerful little Olivia. This year, I can’t even make a goal. I
can’t bear to look forward. I’m too overwhelmed to look back. I’m frozen in
the current... Here is what I need to hear right now: You are frozen in the
current. But the Current is *moving*. The Current is not stuck... And at least
you are *here*. Most of your life you’ve been everywhere but where you are.
Maybe here isn’t comfortable. Or clear. Maybe here isn’t "successful" or
famous. But here is where you are. This is life and you are finally living it.
This year, I can’t even make a goal. So instead I will borrow last year’s one:
"2016 [2017] Goal: Live fully the life that is in front of me. Be present with
my family. Make meaningful art. Refuse to worry." Honestly, that seems
impossible to me right now. I feel like I was a better man one year ago. But I
will try. Or maybe better, I will let it happen. I will trust the Current. I
am frozen, but the Current is not.

