---
date: 2018-06-12
title: "Blog Post"
---

# We must learn to stop

Healing is not something you do--it's something that is done *to* you.

  

That seems obvious, but in a culture where we never stop *doing*, we are
experiencing a lack of healing. Not for lack of a source of healing, but for a
lack of our own receptivity.

  

Healing requires stopping of all our doing.

  

If we're constantly "busy", we are not able to heal. "Busy" is external--our
calendar is full--but it is also internal: anxiety, worry, distraction.

  

Our culture, our world, our *selves* are sick. We need healing.

  

We must learn to stop.

  

For me, 5 years ago stopping meant letting the expectations of church-work,
and of the Christian events I was playing, catch up to me. Worse, it meant
letting the discrepancy between what I was doing and who I was catch up to me.
I didn't want to feel that, so stopping wasn't an option.

  

3 years ago stopping meant letting the likelihood of losing Olivia catch up to
me. It meant letting the reality of being parents of a severely handicapped
child catch up to me. It meant letting the reality of the death of my dreams
catch up to me.

  

2 years ago stopping meant letting the physical memory of what it felt like to
hold my lifeless daughter in my arms catch up to me. It meant letting the
pictures of handing the basket to someone I didn't know, and of that basket
leaving our house forever, catch up to me. It meant feeling those things
again.

  

Today stopping means letting my weakness, my incompetence as a father, as a
husband, as a writer, as an artist catch up to me. It means letting the
feelings of inadequacy and helplessness catch up to me. I don't want to feel
those things.

  

What I'm saying is that grief is not something limited to people who have lost
someone. My personal examples here start before Olivia came into the picture.

  

A man who realizes his dreams have faded out of view somewhere along the lines
has grieving to do.

  

A mother who at night promises herself she will be patient with her kids only
to lose it with them a thousand times during the day has grieving to do.

  

Grieving is not an exclusive club. Grieving is something all humans have to
do.

  

If any of us stop, our grief is waiting for us... our *healing* is waiting for
us, because grief *is* healing.

  

Healing is waiting for us to stop.

  

We *must* learn to stop.

