---
date: 2018-09-20
title: "Blog Post"
---
<p>One of the most important and most difficult decisions we make every day is to choose the point of view from which we will see the day.</p><p><br></p><p>Every day, we can choose to approach and to see the day from a position of trust&mdash;of rest.</p><p><br></p><p>Or, we can allow ourselves to fall into whichever ruts have been forming over years and years of living without trusting&mdash;without rest.</p><p><br></p><p>If we're honest, we find that not only is it easier to fall into the ruts, but we like it&mdash;it is more comfortable there.</p><p><br></p><p>As nice as it sounds to live from a posture of trust&mdash;to see the day from the point of view of rest&mdash;it is so difficult to do. Because of this discomfort, the uncertainty, the feeling of having to start over and over, our choice most day is to let ourselves fall into the ruts&mdash;to fall into the familiar point of view.</p><p><br></p><p>This daily choice affects our lives, and more significantly our experience of our lives, more than any of our circumstances.</p><p><br></p><p>This is huge because it puts the responsibility of the quality of every moment&mdash;of our life&mdash;into our own hands. It comes down to choices that we make&mdash;not that someone else is making.</p><p><br></p><p>On one hand this gives me great hope&hellip; On the other, it scares and frustrates me, because I just can't seem to make a choice like that.</p><p><br></p><p>Maybe that's where God comes in? Maybe God was never trying to save us by our circumstances&mdash;maybe God is saving us by the changing of our mind. How does that change my responsibility to cooperate with the work God is doing?</p><p><br></p><p>Just some thoughts.</p>