---
date: 2019-04-19
title: "Blog Post"
---
When Heather and I took a break from “going to church”, we instead took our kids to parks: we walked, breathed, and tried to remember what it was like to just *be*, and *be* together. It was a deeply spiritual, meaningful, healing time for us.

Many of our friends and family were concerned. They set up coffees and conversations with us about why we’d stopped “going to church.” I felt like we became a problem to be solved—we were “lost”—and I thought: “What are you trying to restore for us? Will it make you happy to know that we go listen to a 20 minute sermon and sing 4 songs once per week? Will that mean we’re ‘saved’ again? Will that make us 'Christian' again?"

Our culture's definition of spiritual health is backward. The "saved" among us are lost. Many of our "lost" are simply looking for their way back to a real, honest path—they are the brave ones... they are closer to salvation than the masses who have forfeited their beautifully unique Self and calling for a weekly dose of spiritually-oriented information.

Can meaningful things happen at church services? Yes, of course. But it is not a result of the program—it is always a result of an individual deciding to share their true self with another (*being* together), which can happen at a church service... or a dinner, or a concert, or in a park.

There is a big looming object obstructing our spiritual perspective: the object is our mindset. It is time for our mindset to change. It is time for us to stop *going* and accept our responsibility to *be*. Human *beings*.

When my being* and your *being* meet—when we are *being* together—we will find Church again.